# Betterment - Robo Advisor Financial Advising
## Betterment, a financial advising fiduciary, was founded in 2008 by Jon Stein and Eli Broverman with the intention to combine the innovative and creative nature of human coding with the ability of tech to sift through large amounts of data and adapt to optimize success.(1) Jon sought to bring valuable financial services to a wider audience in order to provide a service that he believed had only benefited the wealthy to gather more wealth.(2) Since 2008, with the help of the current CEO, Sarah Levy, Betterment has over 750,000 customer accounts and raised over 160 million in growth capital in its goal to automize investing for the everyman and create wealth for those brave enough to seek it. Betterment has relatively low monthly costs and service fees compared to other providers of this service charging only 4 dollars a month + .25% for investing accounts and only 1% + trading expenses for crypto trading. These fees, along with investments from groups such as Bessemer Venture Partners, the Anthemis Group and Citi Venture, allow Betterment to continue to evolve and optimize to stay at the forefront of Robo Advising. 
## Business Activities
### Since its founding in 2008, Jon has intended Betterment to be mainly utilized by those that would not normally be able to enter this very competitive and confusing industry with the creation and utlization of trading algorithms and human minds that put the customer first. Betterment can cater to specific customer needs with things like Retirement and Safety plans and general investing where Betterment will invest in ETF's with low cost and high liquidity making them easier and cheaper to trade.(3) Betterment sees itself as a Fiduciary meaning they are morally obligated to act in the best interest of the customer, in part by disclosing any and all conflicts of interest and giving the opportunity to create external accounts to give its customers a more complete picture of their finances through another lense. Betterment currently employs a multitude of applications and utilities such as Python (which can be used to build machine learning models) and Crazy Egg ( which can be used to track and optimize datato better understand the customer.
## Landscape
### Betterment lies within the Robo Advisor domain of the finance industry. Over the past ten years the Robo Advisor domain has seen drastic evolvement in the form of advancements in A.I and Machine Learning through which we are able to enchance the accuracy of financial advice. Machine Learning and A.I are able to analyze large amounts of data and learn from that data which enables us to be able to find market trends, risk profiles, personal preferences, etc. (4) Some major companies that also encompass the Robo Advisor sphere of finance include Schwab Robo Advisor, Wealth Front, and MI Finance. 
## Results
### Over the past 10+ years, Betterment has evolved from a small automated investing financial domain into one of the top Robo Advisor companies in its domain with over 800,000 accounts and over 40 billion in assets under management.(5) I found a list of core metrics that help measure the success of companies in this domain, and they include:
Access to advisors (6.0), Financial Planning (13.5), Transparency (8.0), Features (9.2), Customer Experience (3.0), Size and Tenure (2.0), Asset Minimum (3.0), Costs (12.5), Performance (11.6).
Overall, compared to other top Robo Advisor companies, Betterment performed very well in Features, Customer service, and Costs. In areas like access to advisors and performance however Betterment was closer to the back of the pack. 
## Reccomendation
### An additional service that Betterment could provide to its customers that it does not currently have would be giving customers accesss to trade in individual stock. At the moment Betterment seeks to take most of the burden off of its customers, but if given this option those with more knowledge or those who choose to have a little more say over how their money is invested could use this opportunity to apply potential profits made with the automatic trading Betterment provides to make personalized trades. I do know that currently Betterment mostly deals in ETF's since they are a safer option with cheaper cost and low availability, but they could allow access to something like the Dow or NASDAQ which could give options for some more volatile trades but ones that could be more profitable.
#### Sources
(1) https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Betterment_(company)
(2) https://www.nycfounderguide.com/insight/jon-stein-built-betterment-high-minded-mission-outsider-scrappiness#:~:text=As%20a%20consultant%2C%20Jon%20saw,I%20had%20the%20name%20Betterment.
(3) https://www.betterment.com/resources/etf-portfolio-selection-methodology?_ga=2.68576849.1944867314.1695344339-353029784.1695082930&_gac=1.219425259.1695082936.CjwKCAjw6p-oBhAYEiwAgg2PgrFT_ltHSF4B2SZqKt6XXFp15SfesbDNEpo_4__QfApNBMJUffww1hoCQx8QAvD_BwE
(4) https://www.betterment.com/resources/how-betterment-technology-manages-money
(5) https://www.betterment.com/press#coverage
